The <span class="zenpack">ZenPacks.zenoss.ZenMailTx</span> ZenPack allows you to monitor round-trip email delivery.


== Events ==


There are several situations in which this ZenPack creates events. The <span class="keyword property">component</span> will be <samp class="ph codeph literal">zenmailtx</samp>, the <span class="keyword property">eventGroup</span> will be <samp class="ph codeph literal">mail</samp> and the <span class="keyword property">eventClass</span> will be <span class="ph filepath literal">/Status</span>. These situations are:

* The SMTP server name or the POP server name cannot be resolved.
* The SMTP server or the POP server is down or unavailable.
* The timeout (specified on the Data Source tab) is exceeded for the SMTP or POP server.
* Authentication (if specified) with the SMTP or POP server fails.
* A threshold defined for one of the data points in this data source is exceeded. Thresholds are defined in the monitoring template that contains the data source.

Once an email has successfully made a trip back and forth, a clear event is created that clears any failure events.


== Prerequisites ==


{| class="wikitable"
!width="50%"|Prerequisite
!width="50%"|Restriction
|-
|Product
|<span class="ph">Zenoss platform</span> 4.x, Zenoss 2.2 or higher
|-
|Required ZenPacks
|ZenPacks.zenoss.ZenMailTx
|}


== Enable Monitoring ==


<ol>
<li>Click the device in the device list.
</li>
<li>From the left panel, select the Device template under Monitoring Templates.
</li>
<li>Select Add Local Template from the Action menu.
</li>
<li>Enter an identifier for the template (such as ZenMailTx), and then click '''Submit''' to create the template.
</li>
<li>Click the newly created ZenMailTx template.
</li>
<li>In the Data Sources area, click Add to add a data source.
</li>
<li>Enter a name for the data source (MailTx), select PYMAILTX as the type, and then click '''Submit'''.
</li>
<li>Change options as needed.


{| class="wikitable"
|+ <span class="tablecap"><span class="tablecap">Mail Transactions Basic Data Source Options</span></span>
!width="50%"|Option
!width="50%"|Description
|-
|To Address

|The recipient e-mail address. This should be the same as the POP Username.

|-
|From Address

|The e-mail address that will appear in the From: field in the generated e-mail

|-
|SMTP Host

|The e-mail server used by <span class="ph">Zenoss platform</span> to send the email

|-
|POP Host

|The email server where you will retrieve your test message

|}


<span class="tiptitle">Tip:</span>
Any of the <samp class="ph codeph literal">PYMAILTX fields</samp> can take TAL expressions, including the password fields.

</li>
<li>Click <span class="ph uicontrol guibutton">Save</span> to save your changes.
</li>
<li>Navigate to Graphs and you should see some place holders for graphs. After approximately fifteen minutes you should see the graphs begin populating with information.
</li></ol>


== Daemons ==


{| class="wikitable"
!width="50%"|Type
!width="50%"|Name
|-
|Performance Collector
|zenmailtx
|}


== Managing the Collector Daemon ==
This daemon is deprecated and is not working under Zenoss 5.x. Use zenpython deamon with PYMAILTX datasource instead.

The zenmailtx daemon:

* Sends the test email message via the specified SMTP server
* Retrieves the email message from the specified POP server
* Sends the following information to <span class="ph">Zenoss platform</span>:
** Time taken to send
** Time taken to fetch
** Total time

This daemon appears on the <span class="ph">Zenoss platform</span> Daemons page and can be started, stopped and restarted from there.
