<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task
  PUBLIC "urn:pubid:zenoss.com:doctypes:dita:dtd:task" "task.dtd">
<task id="d67e130"><title>Enable Monitoring</title><taskbody><steps-informal><ol>
      <li>
        <p>Click the device in the device list.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>From the left panel, select the Device template under Monitoring
        Templates.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Select Add Local Template from the Action menu.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Enter an identifier for the template (such as ZenMailTx), and
        then click <b>Submit</b> to create the
        template.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Click the newly created ZenMailTx template.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>In the Data Sources area, click <!-- inlinemediaobject: images/screens/add_button.png-->
            Add to add a data source.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Enter a name for the data source (MailTx), select MAILTX as the
        type, and then click <b>Submit</b>.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Change options as needed.</p>

        <table>
          <title>Mail Transactions Basic Data Source Options</title>

          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colwidth="5*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option</entry>

                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>

            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry><p>To Address</p></entry>

                <entry><p>The recipient e-mail address. This should be the
                same as the POP Username.</p></entry>
              </row>

              <row>
                <entry><p>From Address</p></entry>

                <entry><p>The e-mail address that will appear in the From:
                field in the generated e-mail</p></entry>
              </row>

              <row>
                <entry><p>SMTP Host</p></entry>

                <entry><p>The e-mail server used by <ph conkeyref="names/platform"/> to send the
                email</p></entry>
              </row>

              <row>
                <entry><p>POP Host</p></entry>

                <entry><p>The email server where you will retrieve your
                test message</p></entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>

        <note type="tip">
          <p>Any of the <codeph outputclass="literal">MAILTX fields</codeph> can take TAL
          expressions, including the password fields.</p>
        </note>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Click <uicontrol outputclass="guibutton">Save</uicontrol> to save your changes.</p>
      </li>

      <li>
        <p>Navigate to Graphs and you should see some place holders for
        graphs. After approximately fifteen minutes you should see the graphs
        begin populating with information.</p>
      </li>
    </ol></steps-informal></taskbody></task>
